<what is nginx>
    NGINX is pronounced as "engine-ex".
    It is an open-source, fast, lightweight and high-performance web server that can be used to serve static files.
    NGINX has considered as the popular web server behind the Apache web server and Microsoft's IIS.
    In its initial release, NGINX functioned for HTTP web serving. Today, however, it also serves as a reverse proxy server for HTTP, HTTPS, SMTP, IMAP, POP3 protocols, on the other hand, it is also used for HTTP load balancer, HTTP cache, and email proxy for IMAP, POP3, and SMTP.
    NGINX improves content and application delivery, improves security, and facilitates scalability and availability for the busiest websites on the internet.
    In short, we can say that Nginx is just a kind of software that is used in web servers to serve concurrent requests.
    Previously we used to install Apache in web servers to handle these functions, but as the world, in growing and demanding more things at one time, the term concurrency comes into the world and nginx launched for the same thing.
    Nginx was created by Igor Sysoev, with its 1st public release on October 2004 as an attempt to answer the C10k problem. Where C10k is the challenge of managing 10,000 connections at the same time. Today there are even more connections that web servers have to handle. Because of this reason, nginx offers event-driven and asynchronous architecture. This feature makes nginx as the most reliable servers for scalability and speed.
    Some high profile companies using Nginx include IBM, Google, Atlassian, Autodesk, GitLab, DuckDuckGo, T-Mobile, Microsoft, Adobe, Salesforce, VMware, LinkedIn, Cisco, Twitter, Apple, Intel, Facebook, and many more.


<why we use nginx >
    NGINX provides various services such as reverse proxy, load balancer, and rate limit network services. Reverse proxying is useful if we have multiple web services listening on various ports and we need a single public endpoint to reroute requests internally. This would allow us to host multiple domain names on port 80 while using a combination of different NodeJs, Go and java to power separate web services behind the scenes.

    Nginx can handle the logging, blacklisting, load balancing and serving static files while the web services focus on what they need to do.

    The configuration of Nginx is easier than Apache httpd. Nginx was designed for high concurrency and it is very fast.

